Microsoft UEFI CA New Submitter Questions

1.Please provide URLs to your company website and to the products included in this submission.

    https://www.hp.com/

2.Does this submission contain a final shipping product (RTM: Release to Manufacturing)? To better understand this question, please refer to the Sysdev blog for signing policy updates.

    Yes.  The signed shim will be used as bootloader for our linux

3.Have you tested the products in this submission, following pre-submission testing instructions?

    Yes.  I've done full test on it

4.Please provide a description of the purpose and functions of your submitted modules.

    We will use this bootloader in ThinPro for PC (an Ubuntu based Linux variant).  This is not our first linux release.  The actual version is 7.1/7.2.  Previous ThinPro are only released with HP hardwares support.  The next ThinPro release is targeted for not just HP's machines, but also general PC from other vendors.  We need our bootloader to be signed by MS UEFI key for it to be bootable there.

5.Is this a version update from any previously signed UEFI submissions? If so, then:

    Yes, https://github.com/rhboot/shim-review/issues/34 the old signed shim will be blacklisted due to the grub vulnerability

a.What are the submission IDs of the previous submissions?

    HP Inc - ThinPro - shim - 20181005 #34 (https://github.com/rhboot/shim-review/issues/34)

b.Are any security fixes introduced in this newer version? If so, please provide a brief explanation of the fixes made and impact expected.

    N/A, the actual fix is in the grub package

6.Does your submission include license terms that would mandate the transmission of keys used for signing (e.g. GPL family of licenses GPLv2, GPLv3, LGPLv3, etc.)?

    This is the license we use for shim: BSD-2-Clause.  It doens't mandate signing key transmission.

7.Do any of the products in this submission load or execute any other code prior to ExitBootServices()? If so, please explain how the code is loaded, authorized, and executed.

    Shim uses its embedded cert (an HP Inc certificate) to verify every binary before loading and executing them.

8.Do any of the products in this submission take any user input? If so, what input validation is performed?

    No user input is accepted from this module.

9.Do any of the products in this submission take any programmatic input (files on disk, UEFI variables, etc.)? If so, what input validation is performed?

    It looks for GRUBX64.EFI under the same dir, verify it with the embedded HP cert and then executes it.  This is the same workflow used in Ubuntu or Redhat's shim.

10.Have you done any internal or external security reviews of the products in this submission?

    Yes.

11.Do any of the products in this submission use GRUB, or other loaders? If so, please describe where the loader’s source code originated as well as which Secure Boot protections have been enabled.

    We use grub2 from Ubuntu.

12.Do any of the products in this submission use OpenSSL? If so, which version?

    Yes.  It has an embedded OpenSSL library from upstream.  The version can be found in ../Cryptlib/Include/openssl/opensslv.h:# define OPENSSL_VERSION_NUMBER  0x100020bfL

13.Do any of the products in this submission consist of EfiByteCode? If so, what platforms are supported?

    No.

14.Do any of the products in this submission apply only to specific OEM devices? If so, which ones?

    No.

15.Does this submission contain a SHIM? If so, then:

    Yes

a.What are the origin and full version number of your SHIM?

    https://github.com/rhboot/shim/tree/15

b.How do you manage and protect the keys used in your SHIM?

    The cert and keys are protected by HP's signing infrastructure.  Developer doesn't have direct access to the key.

c.Do you use EV certificates as embedded certificates in the SHIM?

    No.

d.If your SHIM launches GRUB or other loaders, what is that loader’s source code origin and full version number?

    We use grub2 from Ubuntu

e.If your SHIM launches any other components, please provide further details on what is launched and how the component prevents execution of unauthenticated code.

    The shim look for and load grub2

f.Does your SHIM load any loaders that support loading unsigned kernels (e.g. GRUB)?

    The shim look for and load grub2

g.If this SHIM has been submitted before, what changes were made since it was last signed?

    N/A

